

The steps described below are going to help you create a repository failry easily and be familiar with some of github's commands.

Step1: You can click on the ICSGithub icon and choose "New Repository".

Step2: Choose a name for your repository and provide a description. The repositories that you can create are now just "public" since we are using the free version.

Step3:Click on "Initialize this repository with a README so you can clone the repository to your PC. You can choose what a suitable format for gitignore and a license if you wish. Now, just clikc on "Create repository".

Step4: After it is done, open the Git Bash. 

Step5: On the repository page, you can see the HTTPS clone URL option. This is how you can copy the repo to your PC. Choose the icon next to the address which says: "Copy to clipboard". 

Step6: On your Git Bash, go to the folder you wish to import the repo and type :"git clone (paste the address you copied on the repo page in Step5). Press Enter. Now the Repo folder has been created in your designated location. 

Step7: Navigate to the folder on Git Bash using the "cd" command and type: "vim README.md". Press the Insert key. Now you can edit the README file and provide useful information for your repository.

Step8: You can step out of the editing environment by pressing the "escape" button twice so you can type on the lower part of the command screen. Then type: ":x" That way, the README file has been saved.

Step9: You can type "git add README.md" to add the README file to the repo on the website. In fact, the "git add" command is used to add any files to the repo that you have made or editted on your PC. 

Step10: After you are done adding files, you can use "git commit-m <a message displayed here> " to write what kinds of update you have done to the repo. You can also create a textfile like "textfile.txt" using "touch textfile.txt" and edit it using the "vim" command and then add it to the repo.

Step11: Another useful command is "git status" which shows which files have been added and "git log" shows who has done the recent changes.

Step11: The last useful command you should know is "git push -u origin master". That means that the files you created on the repo on your PC (master) will be added to the folder on the github page (origin). 

Step12: Provide your username and password when asked and your work is done.

This was a quick guide to the preliminary useful features of github repository creation. Feel free to make more textfiles with more guides to help others. 

Thanks

/Mehrdad Kazemtabrizi
